The theme is, stop being molded by this system of things.
In describing Godly wisdom, the ancient man Job recognized it as priceless.
At Job 28 17, he said, gold and glass cannot be compared to it.
Glass has been around for centuries, even back in Job's day.
However, what revolutionized glass production was the invention of glass blowing.
By blowing through a hollow tube, a glass bowler can quickly mold superheated molded glass into a specific shape.
Satan's system has developed the art of shaping the minds of people into fragile glass vessels with little useful purpose.
In fact, Romans 9.22 refers to such ones as vessels of wrath made fit for destruction. Find with me, Romans 12.2.
What is responsible for molding and shaping the inclinations of the people of the world?
And stop being molded by this system of things, but be transformed by making your mind over, so that you may prove to yourselves the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
To counteract being molded, the verse said, but be transformed by making your mind over.
So the molding of this system is related to our thinking, the shaping of our minds.
But what evil air is blown down the hollow tube?
It's identified quite clearly for us at Ephesians 2, 2, and 3, concerning a Christian's previous unclean thinking and behavior, verse 2 says,
in which you at one time walked according to the system of things of this world.
According to the ruler of the authority of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience.
The verse makes clear that this system of things has a ruler.
Satan is called the ruler of the authority of the air.
The verse indicates that the air is the spirit of the world.
But with such a mindset, what kind of behavior does the thinking of the world lead to?
Verse 3.
Yes, among them, we all at one time conducted ourselves in harmony with the desires of our flesh, carrying out the will of the flesh, and of our thoughts, and we were naturally children of wrath just as the rest.
For this reason, they become vessels of wrath made fit for destruction.
Glassblowers often work in groups known as shops.
An apprentice dips a hollow blowpipe into the liquid glass.
By twirling it, he gathers a blob of molten glass.
He shapes the blob by rolling it on a smooth surface called a marver.
He then passes the tube to the gaffer or shop master.
He blows air into the tube and fashions the glass into a globe.
Well, if a wine glass is being made, the tube is then passed to the stem maker, and another gather of glass is attached.
It's then shaped by means of long pointed tongs to form the stem.
Then another gather of hot glass is added to the stem.
The craftsman rolls the tube on the arm of his chair.
He forms the base of the glass.
We will briefly consider four ways that this system subtly tries to shape our mind into Satan's designs.
The first is harmful peer pressure.
Now often this is just an apprentice in Satan's shop.
Maybe fellow students in school, fellow workers on the job.
Don't you think Satan will try to capitalize on these circumstantial relationships?
Absolutely.
Peer pressure.
It can have an influence on our mind.
They may make fun of our wholesome morals, our clean speech, our dignified dress.
That is pressure.
Possibly they invite us to do things that we know will lead to no good.
They are twirling us with their thinking, with their taunts, or maybe with their flattery and temptation.
They are rolling things over and over in our mind.
Turn to 2nd Peter, 2 18 and 19.
And as you read this, can you pick out a word that's equivalent to peer pressure?
Let's read 2nd Peter 2 18 and 19.
They make high sounding statements that are empty, like air.
By peeling to the desires of the flesh and with acts of brazen conduct, they entice.
That's peer pressure.
They entice people who have just escaped from those who live an error.
While they are promising them freedom, they themselves are slaves of corruption.
For if anyone has overcome by someone, he is his slave.
The verse says if we're overcome by peer pressure and enticed, we actually become a slave of that person.
That is scary. It's dangerous.
Peer pressure is deceptively strong.
But what is another way that the spirit of this system can shape our thinking?
You recall the apprentice passed the glass-blowing tube to the gaffer who blew air into the glass, giving it shape.
What does Satan and this system next use to mold our thinking?
Enticing advertisements.
Like the air of a glass-blower, advertisements often have little substance.
For example, that product we decided to buy when we last went shopping.
Maybe it was a brand of clothing or a brand of dry cereal we bought for breakfast.
Is that always purely a personal, rational decision on our part?
Or did advertising subtly but powerfully affect our choice?
Now, it's not that all advertising is bad or misleading.
But the more we allow ourselves to be influenced by it, the more we are in danger of being led into a materialistic way of life.
For example, instead of dry cereal, are we now influenced to buy that flashy looking sports car?
Turn to 1st John 215-17.
This system inflates our thinking by means of things.
Do not love either the world or the things in the world.
If anyone loves the world, the love of the father is not in him.
Because everything in the world, the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes
and the showy display of one's means of life, does not originate with the father but originates with the world.
Why do we need to resist catering to advertisements that feed the spirit of the world?
Verse 17.
Furthermore, the world is passing away and so is its desire.
But the one who does the will of God remains forever.
Remember Eve, Satan advertised the forbidden fruit.
The scripture says it was desirable to the eyes.
The tree was pleasing to look at.
She succumbed to the advertisement with disastrous results.
Similarly, Satan used advertisements to try to reshape Jesus' focus.
Matthew 4 says that Satan showed him all the kingdoms of the world, offering them an exchange for one act of worship.
Jesus simply turned him off.
He won't be overly influenced by advertisements.
But what's the next aspect of this system that can distort our minds?
Bad associations.
It is as if the gaffer has now passed the glass-blowing tube to the stem maker.
He takes another gather of molten glass and attaches it to our globe.
Then he stretches that associated blob into the form of a stem.
But we already talked about pure pressure.
But that often comes from those who are not necessarily our close associates.
What we're discussing now is our decisions about whom we spend a lot of time with.
People who don't love Jehovah can stretch and misshape our minds, providing a stem or a handle for the world to hold us by.
Turn to 1 Corinthians 1533.
Sometimes we hear the phrase that some of the kids in school are nicer than some of the kids in the congregation.
But usually nicer actually means more fun rather than more wholesome.
But let's look at 1 Corinthians 1533 in its context.
What did the Apostle Paul mean when he said to the Corinthians, bad associations?
1 Corinthians 1533.
Do not be misled.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.
But what made these ones bad associations?
Let's see it in context.
Look at 1 Corinthians 1512.
Now if it is being preached that Christ has been raised from the dead,
how is it that some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead?
Well, what was the initial problem with these associates?
They did not believe the same way.
Well, why would that make them bad associations?
Because when an associate believes will eventually affect our thinking and our thinking affects our behavior.
Notice how Paul describes this.
Look at 1 Corinthians 1532.
What good is it to endure the rigors of the Christian race for life if there is no resurrection, no future, no hope?
1 Corinthians 132.
If like other men I have fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, of what good is it to me?
If the dead are not to be raised up, let us eat and drink for tomorrow we are to die.
May all of us avoid bad association whether in person, on TV or on the internet.
What's a fourth means by which Satan attempts to fashion us, reshaping our thinking?
Higher education.
Most of us remember the January 2015 JW Broadcasting program hosted by Brother Morris of the governing body.
He focused on the value of divine education.
But he also reaffirmed the dangers of pursuing higher secular education.
Its whole purpose is for learning, influencing one's thinking.
And will a person's intention might be just to create a stable base for a secular future?
His decision could expose him to unscriptural ideas and practices.
Back to the glass shop.
Recall that another gather of hot glass is added to the end of the stem?
The craftsman then rolls the two backwards and forward.
He forms the base for the glass.
Well, we will say no more about this topic other than what Brother Morris has already shared.
You might want to go back and review that broadcast.
However, we would like to read 1 Timothy 6, 2021.
Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you.
That's divine education.
Turning away from the empty speeches that violate what is holy and from the contradictions of the falsely-called knowledge.
By making a show of such knowledge, some have deviated from the faith.
Unfortunately, in an effort to make a stable base for one's financial future, many have deviated from the faith.
In the visuals of a glass-blowing shop, we observed the skill of the workers involved.
And that shop obviously produces beautiful, useful glass vessels.
Satan's glass shop is also skilled at shaping one's thinking.
But what does it produce?
Instead of a person becoming a valuable vessel that Jehovah can use, Satan is actually mass-producing worthless vessels that Jehovah cannot use.
What could you do with this mishap creation?
Nothing, it is useless.
At the outset, Romans 9.22 was quoted.
Those who conformed to Satan's system are referred to as vessels of wrath made fit for destruction.
Jehovah's paid a high price for us.
Gold and glass cannot be compared to it.
May we make over our minds by applying godly wisdom.
Glorified Jehovah is a vessel that he can use.
1 Corinthians 6.20 concludes this discussion nicely saying,
for you were bought with a price.
By all means, glorify God in your body.